And the author of this book
journeys out of the body would
you welcome Robert Monroe?
It is indeed a problem? How does
one follow from from bodied out
of body? What is an out of body
experience? Well, an out of body
experience is a state of being a
state of awareness state of
action separate and apart from
the physical body about 25% of
the population throughout the
world I guess has this
spontaneously take place.
That, they are aware of.
At least once in their lifetime
now, what happens? What happens
well, what happens is that.
You as an individual suddenly
find yourself for one reason or
another. Apart from your
physical body and yet you can
think you can be you can act.
But your physical body is in
some other location. It may be
only 2 inches away or 2000 miles
away. Now we've heard about
People who have supposedly died
and then have come back to life
that is also an outer body
ideas. We need in our bodies are
rather extreme way you believe
in that then if someone's in an
awful automobile accent and the
next thing they know they are
kind of floating above it
watching that's what we mean by
a spontaneous when I said where.
And it is very, very common, and
also a very important thing is
that everyone does this.
The fact that you do not
remember it does not infer that
it does not happen. For example,
during what we call. Delta sleep
at night which everyone goes
through is quite probably
according to our research is at
the time when everyone goes into
this out of body state. You
don't remember it but it does
take place and there was like a
dream. No, it's something apart
from a dream. It is there's
there's no philosophic
connotation in our approach to
it. But it is somewhat process
of the recharging mechanism that
you get during sleep.
When you first had yours will
you frightened I was totally
frightened panic stricken is a
better word for it.
And I went through as a result,
all the processes of medical
examination psychiatric
examination is trying to
determine. Why this was
happening? Robert described for
us your first body it can
remember it still look bright
and hang on.
Very simple I had been
encountering. A phenomenon that
was like a vibration in the
body. And I had gone to my
doctor about it and he had said
Oh that's just nerves and so on,
and I would have to wait till
this. Faded out, then it was
not a physical vibration,
incidentally. And one night, I
was lying in bed.
Waiting for this vibration to
cool down or fade away as it
were so that I could simply
roll over and go to sleep
because I didn't feel I should
go to sleep or couldn't as a
result of this taking place.
On that particular night. I was
waiting because it was a Friday
night and Saturday was going to
be a beautiful bright cold front
day, meaning a good day for
gliding so I was lying in bed,
taking quite a nice time I was
going to have that Saturday
getting into these nice thermal
lifts and soaring around.
And on that particular time I
was adding the process of
thinking this way.
I suddenly felt something
bumping against my shoulder.
And I looked in here was this.
I looked to be the floor bumping
against my shoulder and I
thought that's strange. I don't
remember going to sleep. And I
looked across and I said there
is no rug on the floor.
I look more closely and there
was something sticking up out of
the floor. They shouldn't be
there. And trying to perceive
what this was I.
Got a real close look and it was
the chandelier and in
desperation. I realized that I
was not bumping against the
floor. I was bumping against the
ceiling and I flopped around in
the air and looked down, and
there below main was the bed.
And here was my wife in bed and
he was a man in bed with my wife
and my first response is. Well,
this is an odd kind of Freudian
type green and I thought well. I
better get a good look at this
man who was in bed with my wife.
And I moved over a little bit
closer and with a great shock. I
discovered that the man in bed
with my wife was me.
And then I went through this
great emotional surge that I'm
dying death is here. I don't
want to die. Let me get back in
there and so I swam down to the
body popped in. And how I don't
know, and then I sat up in bed
and looked around, everything
was quiet. My wife was lying
there bit and I looked up and
there was a chandelier.
And Needless to say, I did not
sleep the rest of that night.
The next day, I heard myself
down to my favorite doctor and
he knew I was worried but he
couldn't find anything wrong
with me and that began search I
fearfully. Trying to avoid
letting this take place again
and. As things do happen,
it takes place again and
you have to fight the
surge of panic about it.
I have gone to sleep many times
and not remembered going to
sleep. I've had what I guess. We
know as dreams or even
nightmares. I guess they're
probably different so how do you
know it wasn't that or it isn't
that when you go and have an out
of body it took me almost a
year. Of very cautious
exploration to determine that it
was not a dream. How do you
explore it well first you go
just a little bit and you look
around then you duck back then
you go a little further as I did
in the initial stages, so In
other words, you have complete
control of out of body when you
go through this in a careful
process you do yes.
I would be afraid of getting
lost now. I know that sounds
silly, but what if you went out
and went around the block or
something that loss couldn't get
back. I did that. Did you see so
silly you could get lost. It's
amazing for example, unless you
have been in the helicopter for
example, over San Francisco at
night. Let's see you find
yourself if you're only 100 feet
over a whole bunch of rooftops
and try and find yourself and
see where you are questions from
the audience about this.
Chill start how old were you
when it was like her kid. No, it
did not start when I was about
about 40 years old.
Is it still happening today I
mean? Do yes in a different form
but you control it completely
today is that right.
Oh, you mean wait wait you know
when you're going to come out.
You say OK tonight. I'm going to
go for around the block or well,
I've gotten tired of going
around. The farthest is about
well, I've gone around the world
was just for the fun of it. This
time space gets very boring
after awhile so you don't only
go around the world that you
actually go out in the world.
Yes, how many times can you go
from Virginia to San Francisco,
which is been one of my common
runs before it gets boring no, I
just have a lot of friends here.
Give me anybody else out there
well. Yes, we do now can this
help People they learn this out
of body experience can help them
when they die or they think
they're going to die or their
times up in this way. You made
your discovery that comes with
the result of such activity of
practice. Without any
equivocation. Without any going
past hope belief faith.
You know that you do survive
death. This changes your
overview your perspective. You
have that knowledge and it's not
a religious thing. It's not a
philosophic thing. It's a very,
very pragmatic thing that you do
survive. Physical there and you
also as it says in your book can
take terminal patients and
relieve them of their pain by
getting them to work. This is
part of it, but we let them
establish a beachhead where
they're going, so they're
totally familiar. With where
they're going, and then their
fears evaporate completely then
they make nice neat plans with
some friends of there is there
to have a welcoming party as it
were so you're not you're not
afraid of dying at all? Are you
well. Yes, I don't particularly
want to have too much to do
here. But I'm not afraid of it.
I would think I would get rather
irritated that if I had to die.
Now I'd be irritated possible
since you've had these out of
body experiences. You know how
you're going to die. Have you
seen yourself die yet? Yes, no,
I give you 1 illustration that
it's important to me.
I passed the 20 year mark in
this exploration and I think.
I have done this for 2 reasons
one to prove that you can do
this and still stay physically
alive and the 2nd is that you
can do this and still stay
reasonably saying. 2 important.